---
layout: post
title: "Deep dive into AWS Roles"
date: 2018-07-05
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
The starting description of [AWS Roles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles.html) is they are a set of permissions (policies??) that can be assigned to AWS resources, the standard example given is an EC2 instance which needs assess to S3, you can create a role which allows an EC2 instance to access specific S3 resources then assign the role to one or more EC2 instances.

This explanation is fine as far as it goes. What I don't understand is why are they necessary? Why create a role which contains one or more policies and is assigned to a `Principle`? Is it that they are a useful aggregation of policies? If so why is it necessary to assign a `Principle`.

Some things to consider:
* [Using Service-Linked Roles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/using-service-linked-roles.html)
* [EC2 instance profiles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2_instance-profiles.html)
* [Creating a Role for a Third-Party Identity Provider (Federation)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create_for-idp.html)

EC2 Roles comes with all these options:

* `EC2` - Allows EC2 instances to call AWS services on your behalf.
* `EC2 - Scheduled Instances` - Allows EC2 Scheduled Instances to manage instances on your behalf.
* `EC2 - Spot Fleet` - Allows EC2 Spot Fleet to launch and manage spot fleet instances on your behalf.
* `EC2 - Spot Fleet Auto Scaling` - Allows Auto Scaling to access and update EC2 spot fleets on your behalf.
* `EC2 - Spot Fleet Tagging` - Allows EC2 to launch spot instances and attach tags to the launched instances on your behalf.
* `EC2 - Spot Instances` - Allows EC2 Spot Instances to launch and manage spot instances on your behalf.
* `EC2 Role for Simple Systems Manager` - Allows EC2 instances to call AWS services like CloudWatch and SSM on your behalf.
* `EC2 Spot Fleet Role` - ??

### Example trust relationships

EC2 Role:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Service": "ec2.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}
```

Cognito:
```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "cognito-identity.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "cognito-identity.amazonaws.com:aud": "eu-west-2_jDPTHqXrf"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```







Links:

* [How IAM Roles Differ from Resource-based Policies](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_compare-resource-policies.html)




